# PSP analysis
Calculator Planning
I will need operators +,-,*,/. I will use Python since it's simple. It will use two arguments per operation. If the first argument isn't defined, it's supposed to use the result of the previous operation. If the received input isn't valid, it will throw an error and ask the user to start again. If the user types "exit", the program will end.

Time at this point: 3 minutes. I expect the design phase to take up 5-7 minutes.


Design
I will not use the bit operations for calculation, rather using Python math functions instead. I will define a function for each operator that will most likely be almost the same for each of them, a function for the input that will also handle the lack of the first argument, using the result of the previous calculation in that case, and will give an error if the input isn't valid, a function for the output, and the main function that would print out the instruction message on how to use the calculator and tie all the other functions together. I will use PyCharm as my IDE.

Time at this poiunt: 7 minutes (on time). I expect the coding phase to take up 20 minutes.


Program written and untested. Gemini AI used to write get_calculator_input function, which I later slightly adjusted.

Time at this point: 35 minutes (over time). I expect the testing and fixes to take up 7-10 minutes.


Testing done, 1 ussue with previous input fixed.

Time at this point: 38 minutes (under time). Now I will proceed with the analysis of what went wrong. I expect the analysis to take up 5-7 minutes.


Analysis
The design and testing were on point, so everything was good in those phases. However, coding was off, since:
1) I forgot how to use input operations in Python properly
2) I didn't know about the library that Gemini AI ended up using in the input function
3) I slightly deviated from the original design, and as a result, the output is now also handled by the main function, since it seems quite fine for me, and I don't really see why something so simple would be divided into a separate function, unless I wanted to do extreme OOP, but I didn't, and the input function would defeat the purpose of that already since it's relatively big. That is a serious misconsideration in the design phase.

Time at this point: 44 minutes (on time).


AI USAGE: the get_calculator_input function was generated by Google Gemini AI ([conversation](https://gemini.google.com/share/a37f1499df90)). I later went through what it does and added the quit functionality to it.
